# Project Documentation

This site provides project documentation.
Use the documentation navigation to explore.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- [**Project Instructions**](./project-instructions.md)  - the standard project workflow
- [**Your Files**](./your-files.md) - how to copy the example and create your version
- [**Glossary**](./glossary.md) - project terms and concepts
- [**API**](./api.md) - autogenerated code documentation for the public project interface

The API page is not always easy to read at first,
but it becomes useful as you get more comfortable with project structure,
modules, functions, and docstrings.

## Custom Project

## Basis

The dataset includes provided data from our world
data including data points for country, year,
population, gdp and co2 emissions. The example project
is based off of the python module, app_co2_case.

## Phase 4 Modification

I chose to open the csv file subset data,
average the gdp column and change the example
gdp from 1e+12 to 5.71812e+12, the average,
to see what happened to the predicted co2.
This change was fairly easy to operationalize.
I labeled my commit technical modification.
I observed a changed in the the predicted co2.
The original project predicted gdp was 630.03,
after modification, the predicated gdp was 2147.29.
I did some additional digging in the subset csv file to
help unpack the change in predicted co2, while I expected it to change,
I wanted to know what other variables affected that
prediction such as how many rows of data were
included in the original example gdp of 1 vs. how
many were in included in my modification to a 5 (rounding, of course).
There are 66 rows included in the original example gdp
of 1 but there are only 7 included in the modified 5 example.
This seems relevant as the original predicated gdp of 630
was higher than all 66 actual co2 data points but the
modification to a 5 gdp, with only 7 rows of data,
actually split the difference between the highest 5 returns
and lowest 2 returns. The highest 5 returns were 3000 something,
the lowest 2 returns were 1000 something. Initial summary,
this predication model seems to trend upward bypassing any
current data points the higher the volume of data points
it pulls from and inversely tends to split the middle or
average when there is a lower volume of data points to pull from.

## Phase 5 Custom Project

For the custom project, I added a log-log regression model based off research
that this may be the logical next step to determine if the initial
appearance of a linear relationship really existed, as the
the example project suggested. The log-log regression model code
uses the scipy library in python and designed
to capture slope, intercept, rvlaue, pvalue and stderr value.
The log-log model showed a lower rvalue return; however, shows a higher 1.11
slope reflective of elasticity in this data. According to this model,
Co2 emissions increase faster than GDP so instead of having a truly linear
relationship, as the linear regression model suggested, this log-log
model suggests the relationship revealed in the linear regression
model was scale dependent and therfore showed a higher rvalue return.

Researching next steps for analysis was vital to
understanding how to take the example project to the next
level to determine if the initial results in the
linear regression model were valid. Given the results discovered
in application of the log log model, I would suggest analyzing
using the log-log model for any additional analysis
opportunities. A visual using the log log model would
be very helpful in validating the findings and
making them presentable.
